"ASP.NET is an open-source,[2] server-side web-application framework designed for web"
"development to produce dynamic web pages. It was developed by Microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic web sites, applications and services. The name stands for Active Server Pages Network Enabled Technologies."
"It was first released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the .NET Framework and is the successor to Microsoft's Active Server Pages (ASP) technology. ASP.NET is built on the Common Language Runtime (CLR), allowing programmers to write ASP.NET code using any supported .NET language. The ASP.NET SOAP extension framework allows ASP.NET components to process SOAP messages."
"ASP.NET's successor is ASP.NET Core. It is a re-implementation of ASP.NET as a modular web framework, together with other frameworks like Entity Framework. The new framework uses the new open-source .NET Compiler Platform (codename ""Roslyn"") and is cross platform. ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web API, and ASP.NET Web Pages (a platform using only Razor pages) have merged into a unified MVC 6.[3]"
"ASP.NET supports a number of programming models for building web applications:[4] ASP.NET Web Forms – A framework for building modular pages out of components, with UI events being processed server-side."
ASP.NET MVC – allows for building web pages using the model–view–controller design pattern.
ASP.NET Web Pages – A lightweight syntax for adding dynamic code and data access directly inside HTML markup.[5]
ASP.NET Web API – A framework for building Web APIs on top of the .NET Framework.[6] ASP.NET WebHooks – Implements the Webhook pattern for subscribing to and publishing events via HTTP.
SignalR – A real-time communications framework for bi-directional communication between client and server.
Other ASP.NET extensions include:
"ASP.NET Handler – Components that implement the System.Web.IHttpHandler interface. Unlike ASP.NET Pages, they have no HTML-markup file, no events and other supporting. All they have is a code-file (written in any .NET-compatible language) that writes some data to the server HTTP response. HTTP handlers are similar to ISAPI extensions."
ASP.NET AJAX – An extension with both client-side as well as server-side components for writing ASP.NET pages that incorporate Ajax functionality.
"ASP.NET Dynamic Data – A scaffolding extension to build data driven web applications.  On IIS 6.0 and lower, pages written using different versions of the ASP framework cannot share session state without the use of third-party libraries. This does not apply to ASP.NET and ASP applications running side by side on IIS 7. With IIS 7.0, modules may be run in an integrated pipeline that allows modules written in any language to be executed for any request.[7]"
It is not essential to use the standard Web forms development model when developing with ASP.NET. Noteworthy frameworks designed for the platform include:
Base One Foundation Component Library (BFC) is RAD framework for building .NET database and distributed computing applications.
DotNetNuke is an open-source solution that provides both a web application framework and
"a content management system that allows for advanced extensibility through modules, skins, and providers."
"Castle MonoRail, an open-source MVC framework with an execution model similar to Ruby"
"on Rails. The framework is commonly used with Castle ActiveRecord, an ORM layer built on NHibernate."
"ASP.NET MVC is a web application framework developed by Microsoft that implements the model–view–controller (MVC) pattern. It is no longer in active development. It is open-source software, apart from the ASP.NET Web Forms component, which is proprietary."
"ASP.NET Core has since been released, which unified ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web API, and ASP.NET Web Pages (a platform using only Razor pages). MVC 6 was abandoned due to Core and is not expected to be released. Core is currently planned to merge into "".NET 5"".[4]"
"Some well known sites that use ASP.NET MVC include Stack Overflow,[5] Microsoft, GoDaddy and Ancestry.com.[6]"
"Based on ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC allows software developers to build a web application as a composition of three roles: Model, View and Controller. The MVC model defines web applications with 3 logic layers:"
Model (business layer) View (display layer) Controller (input control)
"A model represents the state of a particular aspect of the application. A controller handles interactions and updates the model to reflect a change in state of the application, and then passes information to the view. A view accepts necessary information from the controller and renders a user interface to display that information.[7]"
"In April 2009, the ASP.NET MVC source code was released under the Microsoft Public License (MS-PL).[8]"
"""ASP.NET MVC framework is a lightweight,[9] highly testable presentation framework that is integrated with existing ASP.NET features. Some of these integrated features are master pages and membership-based authentication. The MVC framework is defined in the System.Web.Mvc assembly.""[10]"
"The ASP.NET MVC framework couples the models, views, and controllers using interface- based contracts, thereby allowing each component to be tested independently.[citation needed]"
"In March 2012, Scott Guthrie announced on his blog that Microsoft had released part of its web stack (including ASP.NET MVC, Razor and Web API) under an open source license (Apache License 2.0).[11]"
"Guthrie wrote that ""Doing so will enable a more open development model where everyone in the community will be able to engage and provide feedback on code checkins, bug-fixes, new feature development, and build and test the products on a daily basis using the most up-to-date version of the source code and tests."""
The source code now resides on CodePlex. ASP.NET Web Forms was not included in this
initiative for various reasons.[12]